Hello Google Code-in 2017
It’s that time of year again, Google Code-in is taking place and I’m so excited about it. First thing first, let me introduce myself. Hi everyone, my name is Giri Prasetyo and I write this article because I want to share my experience on Google Code-in 2017 so far.

As we know Google Code-in is an annual contest held by Google since 2010 to introduce pre-university students (ages 13–17) to open source software development. At first, I don’t know about open source software development and why Google concerns about this program. Same as me, Maybe most of you are not familiar with open source software development. This program introduces what open source software development is. I’m so excited with this contest so I decided to register on this program. On the next paragraphs I will tell you, why I‘m so excited with Google Code-in, what I learn in the program so far, and how the community helps me to introduce open source software development.

## First time experience
Yes, this is my first time joining Google Code-in. I knew this contest from this article and I said: “Ok, let’s give it a try” and my first impression is “Wow, it’s a huge event”. This contest serves many tasks and communities (organizations) that we can work with. These tasks can be of any type and not necessearily to be in coding. Yes, you don’t have to be an expert or intermediate coder to join this contest. My educational background are language, culture studies and design so I don’t worry to join this contest, “just do it”.

The prizes are the most attractive thing. Participants who complete at least 1 task get a digital certificate, sounds cool, right? a digital certificate from Google. Participants who complete 3 or more tasks receive a t-shirt, like a mood booster to join this contest. And if you are the choosen participant at the end of the contest as a finalist you’ll get a grand prize trip to Google HQ in California, what a great opportunity! I’m so excited.

I started to find an organization that provides some fit tasks for me and finally I found JBoss community, a community of open source projects that hosts a large number of projects that written in various programming language, especially java. I pick my first task: design launcher icon for the rest-android app. My first submission was reviewed by mentors and I had to revise my submission. Finally, my submission was approved.

## I learn something new
Jump on one task to another task, work with the dateline, and getting feedbacks are lessons that I learn on school. I learn something new when I joining Google Code-in, Community involvement. School teachs us how to work as a student not as a group of students. JBoss community is clearly written on their organization’s name as a community so you have to communicate and take feedbacks all the time. You have to get ready if your work isn’t approved yet. Don’t worry to ask mentors about your work because the key is taking feedbacks. You have to discuss on the forum, mentors from JBoss community and participants are using gitter as a forum to discuss their tasks. They are amazing and I get some helps.

Study at school be like 75% of individual tasks and 25% group tasks. It depends on your school too, but if your school provides more group tasks than individual tasks perhaps your school system is preparing you become a team player and I think that is good. Joining a community and Google Code-in, I hope I can learn more about the community involvement.

The community helps me to understand what is open source
Google Code-in provides some non-coding task such as research, documentation/training, UI, graphic design, and quality assurance. Research and documentation tasks are the task that makes me understand what open source software development is. A community and their contributions are important to keep open source development program sustainable. With documentation tasks, we could invite people to join our community and make it grow. As a community we could give huge contributions to our social life, build a software product and it doesn’t take any charge so everyone can use it, also make a better ecosystem for our future generations.

Doing some tasks related to open source software development isn’t enough to give an understand about open source software development. For me, an online/offline events are capable to bring a change for the community. Google Code-in is a good example how a big company supports the development of open source software by its program. It supports open source developers and organizations to introduce their programs, letting young generations contribute and directly connect with professional developers, and helps the organization to get exposures. I hope with those examples, small open source software developers could imitate how Google helps young generation to learn open source software development.
